# Path 3 - Migration via Replication

Using the `SLAVEOF` or the `MIGRATEOF` is for migrating from one version to another to support a move to Azure. 

> **NOTE** None of the Azure services (`basic`, `standard`, `premium`, or `enterprise` support the `SLAVEOF` or `REPLICAOF` commands).  

Taking this path is an intermediate step for when a migration tool has been selected that uses the `DUMP` and `RESTORE` commands.  These commands will not work if the two instances are different because the encoding of the key value does not port properly.

## Setup

Follow all the steps in the [Setup](#appendix-a-environment-setup) guide to create an environment to support the following steps.

> **Note** If the server is not enabled for SSL and is running 6.0 or higher, it is highly recommended that it is configured.  See [Configure Redis for SSL connectivity](#configure-redis-ssl) to enable SSL for the instance.

## Option 1 : Set to Read Only

- Run the following to set the source Redis server to read only:

    ```bash
    redis-cli config set min-replicas-to-write 3

    sudo service redis-server restart
    ```

- If you have an errors, run the following:

    ```bash
    journalctl -u redis-server
    ```

## Option 2 : Rename Commands

This can also be accomplished by renameing all write commands.

- Open the `redis.conf` file, add the following lines:

    ```bash
    rename-command FLUSHDB ""
    rename-command FLUSHALL ""
    rename-command DEBUG ""
    rename-command SET ""
    rename-command DEL ""
    rename-command RENAME ""
    rename-command RPUSH ""
    rename-command SADD ""
    rename-command ZADD ""
    rename-command HMSET ""
    rename-command EXPIRE ""
    ```

- Exit the editor, then run:

    ```bash
    sudo service redis-server restart
    ```

> **NOTE** This is not all write commands, add what you need to prevent any changes to your Redis instance during the migration.

## Replication (SLAVEOF) : Pre Redis 5.0

- Browse to the Azure Portal
- Select the **PREFIX-redis01** Redis instance
- Open a PowerShell window, login using SSH
- Run the following commands:

    ```bash
    redis-cli

    slaveof source_hostname_or_ip source_port
    ```

- Once replication has completed, run the following on the target:

    ```bash
    slaveof no one
    ```

## Replication (REPLICAOF) : 5.x or higher

- Browse to the Azure Portal
- Select the **PREFIX-redis02** Redis instance
- Open a PowerShell window, login using SSH
- Run the following commands:

    ```bash
    redis-cli

    replicaof source_hostname_or_ip source_port
    ```

- Once replication has completed, run the following on the target:

    ```bash
    replicaof no one
    ```

## Check success

Depending on the size of the file, it could take a while for the import to finish.  Once it is completed, verify that all keys have been migrated.

Follow the `Check success` steps in the [common tasks article](#common-tasks).

## Resources

- [Rename commands](https://redis.io/topics/security)
- [SLAVEOF](https://redis.io/commands/SLAVEOF)
- [REPLICAOF](https://redis.io/commands/REPLICAOF)
