# Data Migration (Non-cluster to cluster)

## Setup

Follow all the steps in the [Setup](./../05_Appendix/00_Setup.md) guide to create an environment to support the following steps.

## Disable AOF

Follow the `Disable AOF in the target` steps in the [common tasks article](03_DataMigration_Common.md).

## Enable clustering on Target

- Open the Azure Portal
- Browse to your lab resource group
- Select the **PREFIX-redis-prem** instance
- Under **Settings**, select **Cluster size**
- For **Clustering**, select **Enable**
- Select **Save**

## Data Migration

In many cases you may be moving from a single instance Redis server to an Azure Cache for Redis cluster.  When doing this, you will need to migrate any source databases to the `0` database.  This could break applications if the keys overlap.

- In the SSH window for the **PREFIX-redis01** virtual machine, run the following:

    ```bash
    sudo nano restore.sh
    ```

- Paste the following into the file, be sure to replace the target Azure Cache for Redis details:

    ```bash
    #!/bin/bash
    dbs=$(redis-cli config get databases)
    items=$(sed "s/databases//" <<< $dbs)

    for (( count=0; count<items; count++))
    do
        OLD="redis-cli -h localhost"
        NEW="redis-cli -h <REDIS_NAME>.redis.cache.windows.net -a <REDIS_PWD>"

        for KEY in $($OLD -n $count --scan); do
            $OLD -n $count --raw DUMP "$KEY" | head -c-1 > /tmp/dump
            TTL=$($OLD -n $count --raw TTL "$KEY")
            case $TTL in
                -2)
                    $NEW DEL "$KEY"
                    ;;
                -1)
                    $NEW DEL "$KEY"
                    cat /tmp/dump | $NEW -x RESTORE "$KEY" 0
                    ;;
                *)
                    $NEW DEL "$KEY"
                    cat /tmp/dump | $NEW -x RESTORE "$KEY" "$TTL"
                    ;;
            esac
            echo "$KEY (TTL = $TTL)"
        done
    done
    ```

- Save the file and exit the editor
- Run the migration:

    ```bash
    sudo bash restore.sh
    ```

> **NOTE** The target versions should be the same, or have similar encoding of the values in order for the DUMP/RESTORE command to succeed.

### Check success

Depending on the size of the file, it could take a while for the import to finish.  Once it is completed, verify that all keys have been migrated.

Follow the `Check success` steps in the [common tasks article](03_DataMigration_Common.md).

## Enable AOF in Target

Follow the `Enable AOF in the target` steps in the [common tasks article](03_DataMigration_Common.md).

## Summary - Backup and Restore

Even a simple backup and restore operation can potentially require significant effort to restore to an Azure Cache for Redis instance (such as with clusters).

Practice the above steps and record the time it takes to complete the entire migration. In most cases, you should be able to script the migration process.

## Resources

- [Import and Export data in Azure Cache for Redis](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-cache-for-redis/cache-how-to-import-export-data)